
The Network Simulator 3, 5G-NR beam management framework
================================

This ns-3 code is based on the work proposed in the paper:

[1] A. Ichkov, O. Atasoy, P. Mähönen and L. Simić, "Full-Stack ns-3 Framework for the Evaluation of 5G-NR Beam Management in Non-Standalone Downlink Millimeter-Wave Networks," in Proc. IEEE WoWMoM 2022, Belfast UK, June 2023. (https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9842765)

The code implements a full-stack 5G-NR-compliant framework with realistic scheduling, transmission, 
and reception of 5G-NR downlink control signals, namely synchronization signal block (SSB) and 
channel state information-reference signal (CSI-RS). The framework is based on a non-standalone
downlink 5G-NR FR2 (mm-wave) network, enabling control signal transmission via an LTE network 
connection for handover coordination and overcoming radio link failure (RLF). 
Our framework provides customizable interfaces to a threshold-based beam management operation. 
Furthermore, we propose three 5G-NR-compliant beam management strategies, alongside the ideal, 
instantaneous beamforming case. The network simulations use site-specific propagation data obtained
via 3D ray-tracing and realistic pedestrian mobility data.

If you use this module in your research, please cite [1].

## Building the code
The code for the framework and the default models provided by ns-3 is built as a set of libraries. User simulations are expected to be written as simple programs that make use of these ns-3 libraries.

To build the set of default libraries and the example programs included in this package, you need to use the tool 'waf':

```shell
./waf configure --disable-werror
```
```shell
./waf build
```
in the directory which contains this README file. The files built will be copied in the build/ directory.

The ns-3 5G-NR beam-management framework is built as an extension to the [ns-3 5G-LENA module](https://github.com/QiuYukang/5G-LENA), which is a pluggable module to the ns-3 base simulator. Detailed overview on the ns-3 code structure and functionalities can be found in [1].

## Running ns3-beam-management
On recent Linux systems, once you have built ns-3, it should be easy to run the sample program with the following command:

```shell
./waf --run main_UE3.cc
```

The simulation results generated by this program can be found in /out/. 

## License
This software is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPLv2, as like as ns-3. See the LICENSE file for more details.
